R

According to the kaggle 2019 survey learning up to 3 or more languages could increase your  salary
R is free to use just like Python but its a new project. Instead of being open source, R is free software.

Open source vs. Free Software
Python is Open Source, R is free Software what's the difference?

Similarities:
-Both commonly refer to the same set of licenses
-Both support collaboration
-In many cases these terms can be used interchangeably(but not all)

Differences
-Open Source Initiative(OSI) champions open source while the Free Software Foundation(FSF) defines free software.
-Open Source is more focuse on a set of values.
 
Why you should learn R

From the folks at R Studio:
"It's better for everyone if the tools used for data science are free and open, 
and we support coding as the most powerful path to tackle data science."

Who is R for?

-Most commonly used by Statisticians, Mathematicians and Data Miners for developing statistical software, 
graphing and data analysis.
-The array-oriented syntax makes it easier to translate from math to code.
-Most folks learn R a few years into their data science career, 
but R remains a welcoming language to those who don't have a software programming background.
-R is popular in academia but companies that use R include IBM, Google, Facebook, Microsoft,
 Bank of America, Ford, TechCrunch, Uber and Trulia.

What makes R great:

1. R has become the world's largest repository of statistical knowledge.
2. More than 15,000 publicly released packages making it possible to conduct complex exploratory data analysis.
3. R integrates well with other computer languages like C++, JAVA, C, .NET and Python.
4. Common mathematical operations like matrix multiplication work straight out of the box.
5. R has stronger object-oriented programming facilities than most statistical computing languages.

Connect with R communities

1. useR!https://user2020.r-project.org/
2. WhyR https://whyr.pl/foundation/
3. SatRdays https://satrdays.org/
4. R-Ladies https://rladies.org/

More about these communties around the world

https://www.r-project.org/conferences/

 
